# SONiC FIPS Rollout

Table of Contents
=================
* [Overview](#Overview)
* [Requirements](#Requirements)
* [Scopes](#Scopes)
* [How to enable FIPS](#How-to-enable-FIPS)
* [FIPS Design State](#FIPS-Design-State)
* [Limitation and enhancement](#Limitation-and-enhancement)
* [Test cases](#Test-cases)

## Revision

| Rev | Date     | Author          | Change Description |
|:---:|:--------:|:---------------:|--------------------|
| 0.1 | 09/21/23 | Xuhui Miao  | Initial version    |

## Overview
It is for the security requirement, the FIPS 140-3 should be enforced for the devices in the datacenters.

## Requirements
- Deploy SONIC version for FedRAMP Fleet to be FIPS compliant, see Feature [#24944353](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/One/_workitems/edit/24944353)

## Scopes
1. The FIPS 140-3 is only available on SONiC OS Version 11 or above.
2. FIPS is supported on 20230531+ branches.
3. FIPS is only supported on architectures AMD64, ARM64, but not supported on archetecture ARMHF currently, for instance, Nokia 7215.

## How to enable FIPS
There is a FIPS default option to enable FIPS by default when building the SONiC images. If the The FIPS option is turned on, then the FIPS will be enforced when installing the image. Currently, the option is not set, so the FIPS is in disabled status by default. For the internal release 202305+, We can turn on the option in the image to support the FIPS deployment. See Pull Request [#8808723: [202305] Change the FIPS default option in image](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/One/_git/Networking-acs-buildimage/pullrequest/8808723).

Since the config option is in the installation script in the image, it can support all the scenarios easily, such as upgrading for any old images, converting from EOS images, installation from any bootloaders, aboot, grub and uboot.

## FIPS Design State change in the runtime
The image FIPS default option should be the same as the design state in Network Graph Metadata, used to generate golden config generated by NDM. See the liquid config template in Pull Request [#8342173: Add the liquid template for SONiC FIPS](https://msazure.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/One/_git/Networking-Metadata/pullrequest/8342173).

If the design state changed, a device FIPS config is not the same with the image default value, then it is required to do any kinds of reboot for the device, such as warm reboot, fast reboot, or cold reboot, to align the design state after upgrading the the new image.

## Limitation and enhancement
When upgrading to a new image above 202305, even the design state is not the same as the image default option, the desired behavior is to set the FIPS design state option in the kernel before the SONiC OS loading into the the new image, not necessary to do the second reboot to make sure the running state align the design.

There are two solutions to improve it, one is to pass the FIPS design state to SONiC installation script ([install.sh](https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-buildimage/blob/master/installer/install.sh)) when installing the SONiC. It has dependency on the Hardware proxy, needs to know the design state before installing the new image. The other one is to patch the reboot script in old image to read the design state and change the FIPS reboot option after the new image installed. It is very hard to implement it, since it needs to patch for different versions of the reboot script in the old images.

The first solution is proposal, it only needs to pass an environment **SONIC_FIPS=1|0** to override the image default option to enable or disable FIPS when installing the SONiC image, see [PR #16637](https://github.com/sonic-net/sonic-buildimage/pull/16637/files).

## Test cases
### Test case #1 – Test to install a FIPS enabled image, cover aboot, grub, uboot
1. Setup the test environment to the FIPS disabled.
1. Install the image
1. Reboot
1. Verify the FIPS enabled

### Test case #2 – Test design state change
1. Setup the test environment to the FIPS Enabled.
1. Disable the FIPS in golden config db and apply the change to config db.
1. Reboot
1. Verify the FIPS disabled

### Test case #2 – Test negative case, rollback to old image
1. Prepare the 202205 with FIPS disable
1. Upgrade to the release 202305, with FIPS enable
1. Set the next image to 202205
1. Reboot and verifi FIPS disabled

